## Monday
-wrote some tests to see the performance of the slstm in a 2 layer network, i wrote them all to train for 1000 epochs, one has model size 256, one has model size 512 and one has model size 256 + learning rate scheduler
- fixed the poster to be the proper size 
- had to reformat the entire poster, ended up taking a considerable amount of time given taht i had created all the graphs with the previous dimension in mind
- there was a missing space that i needed to fill in the poster so i created a choropleth of the counties in newmexico
- edited the test training runs to fit validation and best score traking into it so that by the end of it it iwll be easy to tell what is the best performing model
- worked more on my paper, combed through the paper finding places that should be cited
- gathered more papers for citations


## Tuesday
- edited the poster further
- ran training round 2 and 3 with the slstm
- read a bunch of papers to add valuable citations for my paper,
- starded adding citations to the paper
- edited the paper further
- read all of these papers today and added citations to my paper from them

    al Sadeque, Z., & Bui, F. M. (2020). A Deep Learning Approach to Predict Weather Data Using Cascaded LSTM Network. Canadian Conference on Electrical and Computer Engineering, 2020-August. https://doi.org/10.1109/CCECE47787.2020.9255716

  Ampel, N. M. (n.d.). Coccidioidomycosis in Persons Infected with HIV Type 1. https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/41/8/1174/379819

  Comrie, A. C. (2005). Climate factors influencing coccidioidomycosis seasonality and outbreaks. Environmental Health Perspectives, 113(6), 688–692. https://doi.org/10.1289/ehp.7786

  Coopersmith, E. J., Bell, J. E., Benedict, K., Shriber, J., McCotter, O., & Cosh, M. H. (2017). Relating coccidioidomycosis (valley fever) incidence to soil moisture conditions. GeoHealth, 1(1), 51–63. https://doi.org/10.1002/2016GH000033

  Fisher, M. C., Koenig, G. L., White, T. J., & Taylor, J. W. (n.d.). Molecular and Phenotypic Description of Coccidioides posadasii sp. nov., Previously Recognized as the Non-California Population of Coccidioides immitis (Vol. 94, Issue 1).

  Galgiani, J. N., Ampel, N. M., Blair, J. E., Catanzaro, A., Geertsma, F., Hoover, S. E., Johnson, R. H., Kusne, S., Lisse, J., MacDonald, J. D., Meyerson, S. L., Raksin, P. B., Siever, J., Stevens, D. A., Sunenshine, R., & Theodore, N. (2016). 2016 Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) Clinical Practice Guideline for the Treatment of Coccidioidomycosis. Clinical Infectious Diseases, 63(6), e112–e146. https://doi.org/10.1093/cid/ciw360

  Galgiani, J. N., Ampel, N. M., Blair, J. E., Catanzaro, A., Johnson, R. H., Stevens, D. A., & Williams, P. L. (2005). Coccidioidomycosis. In Clinical Infectious Diseases (Vol. 41). https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/41/9/1217/277222

  Gorris, M. E., Cat, L. A., Zender, C. S., Treseder, K. K., & Randerson, J. T. (2018). Coccidioidomycosis Dynamics in Relation to Climate in the Southwestern United States. GeoHealth, 2(1), 6–24. https://doi.org/10.1002/2017GH000095

  Kingma, D. P., & Lei Ba, J. (n.d.). ADAM: A METHOD FOR STOCHASTIC OPTIMIZATION.

  McCotter, O. Z., Benedict, K., Engelthaler, D. M., Komatsu, K., Lucas, K. D., Mohle-Boetani, J. C., Oltean, H., Vugia, D., Chiller, T. M., Sondermeyer Cooksey, G. L., Nguyen, A., Roe, C. C., Wheeler, C., & Sunenshine, R. (2019). Update on the Epidemiology of coccidioidomycosis in the United States. In Medical Mycology (Vol. 57, pp. S30–S40). Oxford University Press. https://doi.org/10.1093/mmy/myy095

  Nguyen, C., Barker, B. M., Hoover, S., Nix, D. E., Ampel, N. M., Frelinger, J. A., Orbach, M. J., & Galgiani, J. N. (2013). Recent advances in our understanding of the environmental, epidemiological, immunological, and clinical dimensions of Coccidioidomycosis. Clinical Microbiology Reviews, 26(3), 505–525. https://doi.org/10.1128/CMR.00005-13

  Pappagianis, D. (n.d.). Characteristics of the Organism.

  Srivastava, N., Hinton, G., Krizhevsky, A., & Salakhutdinov, R. (2014). Dropout: A Simple Way to Prevent Neural Networks from Overfitting. In Journal of Machine Learning Research (Vol. 15).

  Tamerius, J. D., & Comrie, A. C. (2011). Coccidioidomycosis incidence in Arizona predicted by seasonal precipitation. PLoS ONE, 6(6). https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0021009

  Tong, D. Q., Wang, J. X. L., Gill, T. E., Lei, H., & Wang, B. (2017). Intensified dust storm activity and Valley fever infection in the southwestern United States. Geophysical Research Letters, 44(9), 4304–4312. https://doi.org/10.1002/2017GL073524

  Weaver, E. A., & Kolivras, K. N. (2018). Investigating the Relationship Between Climate and Valley Fever (Coccidioidomycosis). EcoHealth, 15(4), 840–852. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10393-018-1375-9

  Wilson, L., Ting, J., Lin, H., Shah, R., Maclean, M., Peterson, M. W., Stockamp, N., Libke, R., & Brown, P. (2019). The rise of valley fever: Prevalence and cost burden of coccidioidomycosis infection in California. International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health, 16(7). https://doi.org/10.3390/ijerph16071113

## Wednesday
- final preliminary test round for the slstm
- read more papers
- built the mlstm off of the slstm
- got the mlstm training
- first preliminary round with the mlstm
- mlstm is training but incredibly slow and unoptimized
- worked further on the paper reading more papers and adding citations
- edited the paper more
- went to the print shop and got the paper printed
- they printed it with a white border so i had to go and cut the border off at my moms frame shop with her professional mat cutter


## Thursday
- had to practice a lot for the fast pitch speech
- mltsm is having an issue iwth vanishing gradients so i am trying to go through the weights and see what is going on
- reviewed some more papers adding relevant citations to my own paper

## Friday 
- gave fast pitch presentations meeting went on for 2 hours
- photoshoot for inbre took another 3 hours including when he came into office

## Saturday 
- add a larger slstm model with a high dropout rate and see what that does
- worked on addressing the issues i was having with vanishing gradients, i think it was because there needed to be an epsilonl addet to the denominator in the division of othe cells state
- finished adding all the references to the paper
- tested out dropout with a larger model in regular lstm 


## Sunday
- made the xlstm architecture and got it training
- edited the paper further
- added all the places where the relevant figures  and formulas should go
- learned how to use lucid chart to make diagrams



## TODO


- experiment with different architecture variants with the xlstm
- run the xlstm through the grid search too
- continue writing the paper and compile results
- update the graphs for the poster, and create them into one figure for the poster do this in canva
- create a loss graph of the accuracy over time that plots the lstm xltsm and the mlp on it
- crete the math forward passes for the paper
- edit the paper based on the improvements reccomended
- read through more research papres for wrtining the paper
- update the poster to johns reccomendations
- get the new poster printed



